- I get a lot of questions
about bone density.
This is because my first invention,
which can be found at
Osteostrong locations,
is a medical device that puts axial.
This is the axis of a
bone compression, so end
to end compression on bone.
This stimulates the bone
to deform slightly when the bone deforms.
If you ever look at the inside of a bone
or a picture of the inside of a bone,
it looks like a honeycomb.
There are all sorts of little
walls, and as those walls bend
and become distorted, they're
stimulated to pull in minerals
and rec calcified, building
more little walls in
between the nuclei of the cells,
increasing the density of bone.
There's a lot of myths in this space.
Many people say all you
need to do is exercise.
Well, here's the problem,
the minimum dose response
for the hip joint, and
that is the most important
place for bone density.
We track spinal bone density
and hip bone density, typically in,
in the health measurements of DEXA scans.
That's the sort of standard of care.
When tracking those things,
the hip matters much more
because hip fractures are
associated with mortality.
So the statistic is you
have a 50% chance of death
within one year of a hip fracture
after the age of 50, 50%
chance after the age of 50.
I know that sounds crazy.
Now, how do these people die?
They break their hip. That doesn't sound
like a life-threatening thing.
The problem is they
break their hip, they go
to the hospital, they can't recover
because it needs a lot of body
resources to rebuild that.
And also some of the time,
the bone shatters
instead of a clean break.
And a lot, a lot of that has
to do with bisphosphate drugs.
There's a whole classification
of drugs that are supposed
to protect you from fragility fracture.
But if you do have a fracture,
the fractures are real bad.
When this happens, you can't heal
because there's too many pieces.
The doctors can't screw 'em all back in.
Sometimes there's a mesh
that goes around the bone.
Keep in mind to do the surgery,
they gotta rip all the
muscle away from the bone
to get at it and to put
everything back in place.
You really do not want
a fragility fracture.
So how do you build bone density?
Now, there are a number
of osteostrong centers.
That's the ultimate,
because that's a machine
that uses robotic arms
to put you in exactly
the right position so
that you're just short of
lockout, 120 degree angle.
Same thing with the legs,
but it's easier for me
to demonstrate with my arm here.
So you are contracting in a
very small range of motion
to try and load these bones.
The radius, the oma,
the humerus, all the way
through the clavicle, the all
the extremities, that's one
of the four movements, gives
you incredible loading.
Now, you don't have access to this.
There are a number of things you can do.
So if you're deconditioned, let's say you,
you couldn't just get up
and jog, you don't have
a coordination for that.
You haven't been athletic in a long time.
What I want you to do
is focus on heel drops.
So what you do is you stand
on your toes and drop down,
and you're getting some level of loading.
Now, every time I heel
hits, my whole body needs
to rebalance itself.
So my obliques are firing, my
quadratus muscles are firing,
my abs are firing, my
spinal erectus are firing.
All of these muscles are
firing to stabilize me,
and that's going to make me
better at more challenging
ways of loading body.
Like if I, instead of just
heel dropping, I actually want
to jump, I tow strike when I land,
as we all are supposed to.
Now over time, you get, you build your way
to a plyometric jump.
So something more like this.
Now when you jump like that,
you can actually get to the,
and this is the important
part, minimum dose response,
as in the minimum amount
of loading that's required
to stimulate growth in the hip joint.
This is 4.2 multiples of body weight.
So for those of you who are
still thinking, oh yeah, I'm,
I'm getting that in the gym,
or I'm getting that with X three, no,
you're not one of my really good buddies.
Matt winning held the
world record in the squat
for the super heavyweight division.
So he is a 300 pound guy and
he did a 1200 pound squat.
That's four multiples.
So the world record squat
doesn't even hit the minimum
for bone density growth.
However, in high impact, as we
see with gymnastics research,
you can get to seven, eight,
even 10 times your body weight
from impact.
So don't be afraid of impact.
You want to select the level
of impact that is appropriate
for your level of conditioning.
So, like I said, start with heel drops.
If you have a balance
problem, you can grab a chair
and if you want to do heel
drops, you can just, you know,
like put, put your fingers
on the, the front of a chair
and drop like that.
Or even you're jumping.
If you put a chair right in front
of you, you lose your balance.
You can always grab a hold of the chair.
So please ask questions
in the comment section.
I want to make sure that all
the way from athletic people
who want higher bone density
because they want an athletic advantage,
or decondition people
who haven't exercised in a
long time, ask the questions.
I wanna keep this video
series going on bone density
so I can help as much as I possibly can
with anyone who's compromised.